Hello, my name is Ella Kaye and today I'm going to tell you about rainbowR, a community for LGBTQ plus people who code in R
Everything I talk about today, you can find out more at rainbowR.org
At the useR conference in 2017
I was chatting with the guy who I just met and I mentioned in passing my wife.
I didn't know it at the time
But the guy I was speaking to is also gay and it turns out that he was finding
Socializing at the conference at such a large conference to be rather overwhelming
But as soon as he knew he was speaking to someone else who's also gay, he felt a sense of camaraderie that he could relax
from there we got to talking about the possibility for, the need for even, an
LGBTQ plus community within the broader R community and that's how rainbowR was born
That was seven years ago. The community is now going to over a hundred people
From our time together today. I'd like you to take away that and why we exist as a community
Some of what we do and how you can get involved
we exist to connect support and promote
LGBTQ plus people in the R community and to spread awareness of LGBTQ plus issues through data-driven activism
When it comes to connecting, supporting and promoting people we have two main initiatives
We run monthly meetups over zoom usually on the fourth Wednesday of the month
These are really relaxed, friendly, supportive sessions where people come together to chat mostly about R
It's an opportunity to ask and answer questions
To demonstrate packages or resources you've come across recently and find helpful
Or to show and tell your own work in a really supportive setting
We run a buddy scheme to encourage deeper connections within the community
Which gives people an opportunity to be randomly paired with a buddy in the community
We open up every three months a form
Where if you want a buddy you can fill it in with a little bit of information about yourself and your interests
We then run an R script which gathers the form responses
Randomly allocates buddy pairs and then automatically generates and sends emails to each pair
Where the email is pre-populated with information from the form
And suggestions of things that you might want to talk about or do together
We do this because we know it can be nerve-wracking to meet somebody new
And we want to help get those conversations started
The next round of the buddy scheme will allocate pairs at the beginning of September
The sign-up sheet is already open. You can see the website for more details. I'll share the link again at the end
On to data-driven activism
We host a repo, Tidy Rainbow
Which contains data sets with data relevant to LGBTQ plus issues
The data is there for anybody to use and can be used in a variety of ways
For example, it can be used to practice data visualization or data analysis along the lines of the Tidy Tuesday project
Or it can be used to provide example data sets when teaching or writing blog posts
Something that hopefully will be of interest to allies as well
We're about to start our first ever book club, the book under discussion
Is going to be Queer Data, using gender, sex and sexuality data for action by Kevin Guillen
This book club is open for everyone, LGBTQ plus folks and allies alike
The book club is going to run in the autumn. There are more details on our website
If you're LGBTQ plus and would like to join the community, you can do so via the join form accessible via our website
If you fill that in you will shortly thereafter receive a postcard
If you fill that in you will shortly thereafter receive a personalized welcome email from a member of the Rainbow R team
An invitation to the slack group and an opportunity to sign up for our newsletter
For those of you here at the conference
There's going to be a lunch tomorrow
And also on the slack there is a channel specifically for people who are here
So please do sign the join form if you're interested to get access to that
Unfortunately, I am not personally at the conference
But Daniel Soberg is. He's a member of the Rainbow R team. He should be here in this room if you're watching this live
and
He's looking forward to meeting you
So if you're LGBTQ plus and you want to join a vibrant and supportive community of fellow R enthusiasts
Or you're somebody interested in promoting LGBTQ plus people in the R community and beyond
Please visit our website rainbowr.org to learn more and get involved
Thank you very much. I hope to meet you soon